# Data Visualization project

This is the Data Visualization project of Valeria Insogna and Cecilia Zagni.
The dataset contains info about results from 17 major international skating events from October 2016 through December 2017.

The project addresses the following questions about the data:
* Do judges favour their home country?
* Who are the athletes that present the more difficult elements and how are they ranked? 
* Are element's scores more important than component's scores in the final ranking?


At the end of each event it oversees, the [International Skating Union](http://www.isu.org/) releases a PDF containing all scores given for each performance which are of public domain. That report is known as a "Protocol," and an example can be [found here](http://www.isuresults.com/results/season1718/gpf1718/gpf2017_protocol.pdf).

You can find a list of those 17 competitions at the following [link](https://github.com/BuzzFeedNews/2018-02-figure-skating-analysis).

## Required Packages

- Python 3.9

Subpackages:
- plotly 
- pandas
- numpy

## Structure

You can find the following files and folders in this repository:

- `data/`: The final data used in the 3 notebooks after preprocessing.
- `img/`: The picture used in the presentation and plots.
- `plots/`: The 3 plots used in the presentation.
- `preprocessing/`: The code used to preprocess the raw data from [this repository](https://github.com/BuzzFeedNews/2018-02-figure-skating-analysis).
    * `Preprocessing.ipynb`: The notebook used to preprocess the data.
    * `final.csv`: The final processed data used.
    * `performances.csv`: One row for each skater/team, for each program.
    * `judged-aspects.csv`: One row for each "executed element" and "program component", for each performance at each competition.
    * `judge-scores.csv`: One row for each judge, for each judged aspect, for each performance at each competition.
    * `judges.csv`: The ISU posts the names of each judge (for each program) on a series of HTML pages on its website. BuzzFeed.News collected all of the judge names from those pages and standardized that data. On the ISU's website, judges are often labeled simply as members of the ISU instead of their home country. 
    * `judge-country.csv` is the final csv processed by BuzzFeed News to identify each judge's home country [(here)](https://github.com/BuzzFeedNews/2018-02-figure-skating-analysis/blob/master/data/processed/judge-country.csv).
- `utils/`: The license of the background picture of the presentation.
- `final_question_1.ipynb`: the notebook addressing the first question.
- `final_question_2.ipynb`: the notebook addressing the second question.
- `final_question_3.ipynb`: the notebook addressing the third question.
- `LICENSE`: The license for the code in this repository.


## Our glossary

- __Program__: One segment of a figure skating competition. International figure skating competitions are divided into Short and Free programs.
- __Elements__: The individual technical pieces of a program, such as jumps and spins. Each judge provides a score for each individual element known as a "Grade of Execution."
- __Components__: For each performance, each judge provides scores for five "components": Skating Skills, Transitions, Performance, Composition, and Interpretation. 
- __Aspect__: This is the term used by this analysis to refer to an individual component or element.
- __Scale of Values__: The ISU's conversion table between the "Grade of Execution" and the points awarded for each type of element. See below for more details.


## Glossary of original data

- `performances.csv`:
    - __performance_id__: An ID unique to each performance in a program of a competition. Autogenerated for the CSV files.
    - __competition__: The name of the competition, e.g., "ISU European Figure Skating Championships 2017".
    - __program__: The name of the program, e.g., "LADIES SHORT PROGRAM".
    - __name__: The name(s) of the skater(s).
    - __nation__: The home country of the skater(s).
    - __rank__: Final place in the program.
    - __starting_number__: The order in which the skaters skated.
    - __total_segment_score__: The total score for the program.
    - __total_element_score__: The total score of all elements in the program (individual technical pieces of a program, such as jumps and spins). 
    - __total_component_score__: The total score of all components in the program (recall 5 "components": Skating Skills, Transitions, Performance, Composition, and Interpretation).
	- __total_deductions__: The total deductions given by the technical panel for the performance.

- `judged-aspects.csv`:
    - __aspect_id__: A ID unique to each element or component during a skater's performance. Autogenerated for the CSV files.
    - __performance_id__: See above.
    - __section__: The type of aspect; either `element` or `component`.
    - __aspect_num__: The positional order of the aspect within the performance and section.
    - __aspect_desc__: Shorthand notation for the aspect. For instance, a double lutz would be marked `2Lz`.
    - __info_flag__: A marking by the technical panel, such "<" for an under-rotated jump.
    - __credit_flag__: An "X" in this column means that the skater received "credit for highlight distribution" for that element, which increases the base value.
	- __base_value__: The base number of points for the performed element.
	- __factor__: The amount by which the component score is multipled to calculate its final value.
	- __goe__: The overall translated Grade of Execution (GOE) given by the judging panel.
	- __scores_of_panel__: The judging panel's total score for the aspect.

- `judge-scores.csv`:
    - __aspect_id__: See above.
    - __judge__: The identifier assigned to the judge, e.g., "J1".
	- __score__: The GOE (for elements) or score (for components) awarded by the judge for the aspect.
